
===PAGE 1===
Bebras Community
Statutes
1.1
May 19, 2022
Foreword
The Bebras International Challenge on Informatics and Computational Thinking (short: 
Bebras Challenge) was founded in 2004 by Valentina Dagiene in Lithuania. As an easily 
accessible contest for students of all school ages, it serves to promote informatics and to 
support informatics education. In the following years, in more and more countries, the 
Bebras idea found followers who annually met to develop tasks for Bebras. Now, the 
Bebras Challenge has spread all over the world. Bebras challenges are taking place all over 
the world, and millions of participants have a positive experience with informatics and 
computational thinking and the opportunity to discover or challenge their talent in this 
area.
The community of organizations that run Bebras challenges has become quite large. While 
in the early years of Bebras their representatives formed a small group of closely related 
enthusiasts, now hundreds of people (including everyone working only on a national level) 
are involved in the preparation of the annual challenges. Bebras has grown and grown up. 
In order to ensure a stable and continuous development and to allow for further growth, 
the Bebras Community decided to formulate and adopt the following statutes.
===PAGE 2===
1 Preamble / The Bebras Community
S1 The Bebras Community is an association of organizations which are involved with 
informatics1 and educational activities in this area.
S2 It is the goal of the Bebras Community to promote informatics and computational 
thinking among teachers and young people in particular, among decision-makers in 
the area of education, and to the public at large. 
S3 As a central tool to achieve this goal, the community members organize easily 
accessible and highly motivating online challenges in many countries. Each of these 
challenges follows the pattern of the Bebras International Challenge on Informatics 
and Computational Thinking (“Bebras Challenge” further on), and is therefore 
referred to as national Bebras Challenge.
S4 The working language of the Bebras Community is English.
S5 This document defines the statutes of the Bebras Community. The Bebras Community
may accept further documents as appendices to the statutes. Alternatively, other 
documents may be accepted as guidelines which are not mandatory and are not part 
of the statutes.
2 Membership
S6 The members of the Bebras Community are organizations responsible for running a 
national Bebras Challenge in their country. For the Bebras Community, a country is a 
state that has an officially recognized relationship with the United Nations, UNESCO, 
or the International Olympic Committee. 
S7 A member organization of the Bebras Community is referred to as National Bebras 
Organizer (NBO)2. There may be only one NBO per country.
S8 The Bebras Community lives on contributions by its members. In particular, NBOs 
are asked to contribute tasks to the Bebras Challenge. The Bebras Community equally 
welcomes all other contributions which the Bebras Community and its members will 
benefit from.
S9 The Bebras Community requires an NBO (among other duties mentioned later on)
9.1 to have expertise in the area of informatics education, nationally or 
internationally;
9.2 to annually organize a national Bebras Challenge in its country;
9.3 to promote the national Bebras Challenge and provide the resources necessary to 
make the challenge available to as many young people in the country as possible;
9.4 to make visible to the public that their national activities are part of the 
international activities of the Bebras Community, and to provide a website that 
can be used by the Bebras Community to point to the NBOs national activities;
9.5 to provide a contact person and contact data for permanent liaisons with the 
Bebras Community; and
9.6 to annually report about its activities to the Bebras Community.
1 The term „informatics“ is consistently used throughout this document. It refers to the science and the 
school subject that in other contexts may better be known as „computer science“ or „computing“.
2 The terms “NBO” and “member” are used interchangeably throughout this document.
===PAGE 3===
S10 If an NBO misses to meet the requirements or to make contributions, its membership 
in the Bebras Community may be suspended or dismissed.
S11 The Bebras Community may accept new members from countries without an NBO. 
Organizations from a country with an NBO are invited to get in touch with the 
respective NBO to form a joint NBO organization. In particular, this holds when the 
respective NBO is currently suspended.
S12 In order to become a new member of the Bebras Community, an appropriate 
organization needs to apply to the Bebras Board (cf. Section 3.3). In its application, 
the organization is to lay out if and how it is planning to satisfy the requirements 
mentioned in S9.
S13 There are two states of membership: provisional and full. Any general reference to 
members includes both provisional and full members.
13.1 Decision on an application for membership (provisional and full) will be based 
on the applicant’s fulfilment of the requirements set out in S9.
13.2 After having been accepted as new member, an organization will be a provisional 
NBO.
13.3 Beginning with the first International Bebras Workshop (see section 3.1) after 
becoming a provisional NBO,
(a) a provisional NBO may apply to become a full NBO after at least two years, 
and after running at least two national Bebras challenges (perhaps as trials); 
and
(b) an NBO must not remain provisional for more than four years.
3 Organization, Bodies, Office Bearers and Duties
3.1 International Bebras Workshop
S14 The Bebras Community has an annual meeting, the International Bebras Workshop. 
The main goal of the workshop is to work on tasks for the next national Bebras 
Challenges; therefore, the main result of the workshop is the annual Bebras task pool.
Moreover, the workshop must offer opportunities for exchanging the experiences and 
best practices of organising a Bebras challenge and utilising it in informatics 
education.
S15 The workshop is organized by the Workshop Host, usually an NBO. Among the duties 
of the workshop host are to provide accommodation, food, and the infrastructure 
(rooms, electricity, internet access, …) needed by the workshop participants.
S16 The workshop host may ask for a participation fee from workshop participants. This 
fee is to cover the cost of organising the workshop and must be accepted by the Bebras
Board (cf. Section 3.3). The workshop host is expected to avoid or reduce fees with the
help of sponsors; the Bebras Community supports the host in the search for sponsors.
S17 Each NBO should send at least one delegate to the workshop. The workshop host may 
invite individuals not related to any NBO as guests, if approved by the Board. Guests 
will be given access to Bebras resources only as far as required by their contributions 
at the workshop.
===PAGE 4===
3.2 International Bebras Committee
S18 The International Bebras Committee (IBC) is composed of NBO representatives. 
During the International Bebras Workshop, all NBO delegates are considered IBC 
members. For all IBC actions to be taken in between the workshops, each NBO 
nominates one representative as a member of the IBC.
S19 The IBC is the main decision body of the Bebras Community. Among its duties are
19.1 to decide about full membership, including suspension and dismissal;
19.2 to decide about changes to the statutes, including appendices;
19.3 to decide about guidelines for the work of the Bebras Community;
19.4 to elect members of other Bebras Community bodies, as well as office-bearers.
S20 The IBC will decide on proposals made by the Board or those brought forward by a 
group of at least 3 NBOs at a workshop. 
S21 The IBC meets once a year at the International Bebras Workshop. In between the 
workshops, the IBC is expected to use appropriate means of communication for 
discussion and decision-making.
S22 In general, IBC decisions need to be voted on. In IBC meetings, voting is on the basis 
of “one vote per full NBO”.
22.1 For a decision to be accepted, at least half of those entitled to vote must cast a 
valid vote.
22.2 For a decision to be accepted, at least 2/3 of the valid non-abstaining votes must 
be in favor.
22.3 In between the workshops, virtual votes may be organized.
3.3 Bebras Board
S23 The Bebras Board is the executive body of the Bebras Community. It is responsible 
for all ongoing business of the Bebras Community. Among the duties of the Bebras 
Board are
23.1 to deal with membership issues such as receiving applications, accepting new 
provisional members, checking with NBOs for satisfaction of NBO requirements, 
suggesting suspensions or dismissals of membership to the IBC;
23.2 to find hosts for upcoming International Bebras Workshops;
23.3 to support workshop hosts;
23.4 to manage financial issues as being related to the international operations of the 
Bebras Community;
23.5 to prepare proposals for changes to the statutes;
23.6 to report to the IBC with at least one written summary of all activities per year.
S24 The Bebras Board consists of six voting members who are elected by the IBC, and a 
seventh voting member who is nominated by the host of the next International Bebras
Workshop. The Board may co-opt further individuals to assist the Board in fulfilling 
its duties. In particular, the Bebras Board should involve representatives of future 
workshop hosts in its work. 
===PAGE 5===
S25 Elected members of the Bebras Board serve for a term of three years. Each year, two 
members are elected by the IBC. Re-election is possible.
S26 From its elected members, the Bebras Board chooses one as chair. The other members
will take over other responsibilities as needed. In addition, the Board may appoint a 
secretary as a non-voting member for a term of three years.
26.1 The Bebras Board Chair is the main representative of the Bebras Community 
both within the Bebras Community and to the outside world.
26.2 The Bebras Secretary is responsible for minuting meetings and organizing 
appropriate means of communication amongst the bodies and office-bearers of 
the Bebras Community.
26.3 The Bebras Board Chair has the right to propose an appropriate person to the 
Board for the secretary position. The chair overlooks the work of the secretary 
and may organize compensation for the secretary's work.
S27 The Bebras Board meets during the International Bebras Workshop. In between the 
workshops, the Bebras Board is expected to use appropriate means of communication 
for discussion and decision-making.
S28 The Bebras Board is supported by long-term, standing committees, dealing with (a) 
membership, (b) task handling (in preparation of the workshop), and (c) technical 
issues.
S29 The IBC may install further temporary committees. 
S30 Each committee must consist of at least three members. The Bebras Board is obliged 
to support the work of all committees. For that purpose, at least one Board member is 
associated with each committee.
4 Bebras Challenge
S31 The Bebras Challenge is implemented by the national Bebras Challenges that are 
organized by the NBOs.
S32 A national Bebras Challenge needs to meet the following requirements:
32.1 It should take place during the International Bebras Week, the dates of which 
are set by a decision of the IBC. For countries in the northern hemisphere, the 
Bebras Week is usually the second full week of November. For countries in the 
southern hemisphere, a different week may be chosen. 
An NBO may ask the Bebras Board for exemption from this requirement.
32.2 It should be offered to participants of different ages. Participants should be 
students of primary or secondary education.
32.3 It should be offered nation-wide, i.e. not be limited to a region or specific part of 
a country. In a multi-lingual country, the national Bebras challenge should be 
available in as many official languages as possible and asked for.
32.4 It should draw a major part of its tasks from the annual Bebras task pool.
32.5 The majority of its tasks should not require foreknowledge in informatics.
32.6 It should be organized as a non-profit offering. Participation fees may be 
required in order to cover organizational cost.
===PAGE 6===
S33 Each NBO takes full responsibility for its national Bebras Challenge, and is free to 
decide about organizational details within the requirements listed above. The Bebras 
Community cannot be made liable, financially or legally, for any issues arising with 
respect to any national Bebras Challenge.
5 Revision of the Statutes
S34 Revisions of the statutes may be proposed by the Bebras Board or by at least three 
NBOs together. 
S35 Revisions of the statutes require a decision by the IBC.